README.md, before:

# Toolify

[English](README.md) | [简体中文](README_zh.md)

**Empower any LLM with function calling capabilities.**

Toolify is a middleware proxy designed to inject OpenAI-compatible function calling capabilities into Large Language Models that do not natively support it, or into OpenAI API interfaces that do not provide this functionality. It acts as an intermediary between your application and the upstream LLM API, injecting necessary prompts and parsing tool calls from the model's response.

## Key Features

- **Universal Function Calling**: Enables function calling for LLMs or APIs that adhere to the OpenAI format but lack native support.
- **Multiple Function Calls**: Supports executing multiple functions simultaneously in a single response.
- **Flexible Initiation**: Allows function calls to be initiated at any stage of the model's output.
- **Think Tag Compatibility**: Seamlessly handles `<think>` tags, ensuring they don't interfere with tool parsing.
- **Streaming Support**: Fully supports streaming responses, detecting and parsing function calls on the fly.
- **Multi-Service Routing**: Routes requests to different upstream services based on the requested model name.
- **Client Authentication**: Secures the middleware with configurable client API keys.
- **Enhanced Context Awareness**: Provides LLMs with the details (name and parameters) of previous tool calls alongside the execution results, improving contextual understanding.
- **Web Admin Interface**: Modern web-based UI for managing all configuration options visually, no need to manually edit YAML files.

## How It Works

1. **Intercept Request**: Toolify intercepts the `chat/completions` request from the client, which includes the desired tools.
2. **Inject Prompt**: It generates a specific system prompt instructing the LLM how to output function calls using a structured XML format and a unique trigger signal.
3. **Proxy to Upstream**: The modified request is sent to the configured upstream LLM service.
4. **Parse Response**: Toolify analyzes the upstream response. If the trigger signal is detected, it parses the XML structure to extract the function calls.
5. **Format Response**: It transforms the parsed tool calls into the standard OpenAI `tool_calls` format and sends it back to the client.

## Installation and Setup

You can run Toolify using Docker Compose or Python directly.

### Option 1: Using Docker Compose

This is the recommended way for easy deployment.

#### Prerequisites

- Docker and Docker Compose installed.

#### Steps

1. **Clone the repository:**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/funnycups/toolify.git
   cd toolify
   ```

2. **Configure the application:**

   Copy the example configuration file and edit it:

   ```bash
   cp config.example.yaml config.yaml
   ```

   Edit `config.yaml`. Make sure to add `admin_authentication` configuration (for the web admin interface):

   ```yaml
   admin_authentication:
     username: "admin"
     password: "$2b$12$..."  # Use init_admin.py to generate
     jwt_secret: "your-secure-random-jwt-secret-min-32-chars"
   ```

   Or use the `init_admin.py` script to generate automatically:

   ```bash
   python init_admin.py
   ```

3. **Start the service:**

   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d --build
   ```

   This will build the Docker image (including the frontend admin interface) and start the Toolify service in detached mode.

   - API Service: `http://localhost:8000`
   - Admin Interface: `http://localhost:8000/admin`

   **Note**: The frontend will be compiled during Docker build, which may take a few minutes on first build.

### Option 2: Using Python

#### Prerequisites

- Python 3.8+

#### Steps

1. **Clone the repository:**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/funnycups/toolify.git
   cd toolify
   ```

2. **Install dependencies:**

   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. **Configure the application:**

   Copy the example configuration file and edit it:

   ```bash
   cp config.example.yaml config.yaml
   ```

   Edit `config.yaml` to set up your upstream services, API keys, and allowed client keys.

4. **Run the server:**

   ```bash
   python main.py
   ```

## Configuration (`config.yaml`)

Refer to [`config.example.yaml`](config.example.yaml) for detailed configuration options.

- **`server`**: Middleware host, port, and timeout settings.
- **`upstream_services`**: List of upstream LLM providers (e.g., Groq, OpenAI, Anthropic).
  - Define `base_url`, `api_key`, supported `models`, and set one service as `is_default: true`.
- **`client_authentication`**: List of `allowed_keys` for clients accessing this middleware.
- **`features`**: Toggle features like logging, role conversion, and API key handling.
  - `key_passthrough`: Set to `true` to directly forward the client-provided API key to the upstream service, bypassing the configured `api_key` in `upstream_services`.
  - `model_passthrough`: Set to `true` to forward all requests directly to the upstream service named 'openai', ignoring any model-based routing rules.
  - `prompt_template`: Customize the system prompt used to instruct the model on how to use tools.

## Usage

Once Toolify is running, configure your client application (e.g., using the OpenAI SDK) to use Toolify's address as the `base_url`. Use one of the configured `allowed_keys` for authentication.

```python
from openai import OpenAI

client = OpenAI(
    base_url="http://localhost:8000/v1",  # Toolify endpoint
    api_key="sk-my-secret-key-1"          # Your configured client key
)

# The rest of your OpenAI API calls remain the same, including tool definitions.
```

Toolify handles the translation between the standard OpenAI tool format and the prompt-based method required by unsupported LLMs.

## Web Admin Interface

Toolify provides a modern web-based admin interface for easy configuration management through your browser.

### Initialize Admin Account

Before using the admin interface, initialize an admin account:

```bash
python init_admin.py
```

Follow the prompts to enter a username and password. The script will automatically generate a hashed password and JWT secret, then update your `config.yaml` file.

Alternatively, you can manually add the following configuration to `config.yaml`:

```yaml
admin_authentication:
  username: "admin"
  password: "$2b$12$..."  # bcrypt hashed password
  jwt_secret: "your-secure-random-jwt-secret-min-32-chars"
```

### Access Admin Interface

1. Start the Toolify service
2. Open `http://localhost:8000/admin` in your browser
3. Login with your admin credentials

### Features

- 📊 **Server Configuration**: Manage host, port, and timeout settings
- 🔄 **Upstream Services**: Add, edit, and remove upstream LLM service configurations
- 🔑 **Client Authentication**: Manage client API keys
- ⚙️ **Feature Configuration**: Toggle feature flags and behavior parameters
- 💾 **Real-time Saving**: Changes are saved directly to `config.yaml`
- 🔐 **Secure Authentication**: JWT-based secure login system

### Frontend Development

If you need to modify the admin interface frontend:

```bash
# Install dependencies
cd frontend
npm install

# Development mode (with hot reload)
npm run dev

# Build for production
npm run build

# Or use the build script
cd ..
./build_frontend.sh
```

Frontend Tech Stack:
- React 19 + TypeScript
- Vite build tool
- Tailwind CSS + shadcn/ui component library

## License

This project is licensed under the GPL-3.0-or-later license.

Commit message:

refactor: 重命名项目为 Toolify Admin 并添加项目来源说明
- 项目更名为 Toolify Admin，强调管理界面特性
- README 开头添加项目来源信息，致谢原作者 FunnyCups
- 说明主要改进：Web 管理界面 + 实时配置重载
- 更新所有相关文档和界面文本为新项目名
- 中文化构建脚本和初始化脚本的输出信息

README.md, after:

# Toolify Admin

[English](README.md) | [简体中文](README_zh.md)

> **Project Origin**: This project is based on [funnycups/toolify](https://github.com/funnycups/toolify)  
> **Key Enhancements**: Added web admin interface with visual configuration management and real-time config reload  
> **Acknowledgments**: Special thanks to FunnyCups for creating the excellent Toolify middleware project

---

**Empower any LLM with function calling capabilities, plus a visual admin interface.**

Toolify Admin is an enhanced version of the Toolify middleware proxy with added management features. It injects OpenAI-compatible function calling capabilities into Large Language Models that lack native support, while providing a modern web-based admin interface for easy configuration management without manually editing YAML files.

## Key Features

- **Universal Function Calling**: Enables function calling for LLMs or APIs that adhere to the OpenAI format but lack native support.
- **Multiple Function Calls**: Supports executing multiple functions simultaneously in a single response.
- **Flexible Initiation**: Allows function calls to be initiated at any stage of the model's output.
- **Think Tag Compatibility**: Seamlessly handles `<think>` tags, ensuring they don't interfere with tool parsing.
- **Streaming Support**: Fully supports streaming responses, detecting and parsing function calls on the fly.
- **Multi-Service Routing**: Routes requests to different upstream services based on the requested model name.
- **Client Authentication**: Secures the middleware with configurable client API keys.
- **Enhanced Context Awareness**: Provides LLMs with the details (name and parameters) of previous tool calls alongside the execution results, improving contextual understanding.
- **Web Admin Interface**: Modern web-based UI for managing all configuration options visually, no need to manually edit YAML files.

## How It Works

1. **Intercept Request**: Toolify intercepts the `chat/completions` request from the client, which includes the desired tools.
2. **Inject Prompt**: It generates a specific system prompt instructing the LLM how to output function calls using a structured XML format and a unique trigger signal.
3. **Proxy to Upstream**: The modified request is sent to the configured upstream LLM service.
4. **Parse Response**: Toolify analyzes the upstream response. If the trigger signal is detected, it parses the XML structure to extract the function calls.
5. **Format Response**: It transforms the parsed tool calls into the standard OpenAI `tool_calls` format and sends it back to the client.

## Installation and Setup

You can run Toolify using Docker Compose or Python directly.

### Option 1: Using Docker Compose

This is the recommended way for easy deployment.

#### Prerequisites

- Docker and Docker Compose installed.

#### Steps

1. **Clone the repository:**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/funnycups/toolify.git
   cd toolify
   ```

2. **Configure the application:**

   Copy the example configuration file and edit it:

   ```bash
   cp config.example.yaml config.yaml
   ```

   Edit `config.yaml`. Make sure to add `admin_authentication` configuration (for the web admin interface):

   ```yaml
   admin_authentication:
     username: "admin"
     password: "$2b$12$..."  # Use init_admin.py to generate
     jwt_secret: "your-secure-random-jwt-secret-min-32-chars"
   ```

   Or use the `init_admin.py` script to generate automatically:

   ```bash
   python init_admin.py
   ```

3. **Start the service:**

   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d --build
   ```

   This will build the Docker image (including the frontend admin interface) and start the Toolify service in detached mode.

   - API Service: `http://localhost:8000`
   - Admin Interface: `http://localhost:8000/admin`

   **Note**: The frontend will be compiled during Docker build, which may take a few minutes on first build.

### Option 2: Using Python

#### Prerequisites

- Python 3.8+

#### Steps

1. **Clone the repository:**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/funnycups/toolify.git
   cd toolify
   ```

2. **Install dependencies:**

   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. **Configure the application:**

   Copy the example configuration file and edit it:

   ```bash
   cp config.example.yaml config.yaml
   ```

   Edit `config.yaml` to set up your upstream services, API keys, and allowed client keys.

4. **Run the server:**

   ```bash
   python main.py
   ```

## Configuration (`config.yaml`)

Refer to [`config.example.yaml`](config.example.yaml) for detailed configuration options.

- **`server`**: Middleware host, port, and timeout settings.
- **`upstream_services`**: List of upstream LLM providers (e.g., Groq, OpenAI, Anthropic).
  - Define `base_url`, `api_key`, supported `models`, and set one service as `is_default: true`.
- **`client_authentication`**: List of `allowed_keys` for clients accessing this middleware.
- **`features`**: Toggle features like logging, role conversion, and API key handling.
  - `key_passthrough`: Set to `true` to directly forward the client-provided API key to the upstream service, bypassing the configured `api_key` in `upstream_services`.
  - `model_passthrough`: Set to `true` to forward all requests directly to the upstream service named 'openai', ignoring any model-based routing rules.
  - `prompt_template`: Customize the system prompt used to instruct the model on how to use tools.

## Usage

Once Toolify is running, configure your client application (e.g., using the OpenAI SDK) to use Toolify's address as the `base_url`. Use one of the configured `allowed_keys` for authentication.

```python
from openai import OpenAI

client = OpenAI(
    base_url="http://localhost:8000/v1",  # Toolify endpoint
    api_key="sk-my-secret-key-1"          # Your configured client key
)

# The rest of your OpenAI API calls remain the same, including tool definitions.
```

Toolify handles the translation between the standard OpenAI tool format and the prompt-based method required by unsupported LLMs.

## Web Admin Interface

Toolify provides a modern web-based admin interface for easy configuration management through your browser.

### Initialize Admin Account

Before using the admin interface, initialize an admin account:

```bash
python init_admin.py
```

Follow the prompts to enter a username and password. The script will automatically generate a hashed password and JWT secret, then update your `config.yaml` file.

Alternatively, you can manually add the following configuration to `config.yaml`:

```yaml
admin_authentication:
  username: "admin"
  password: "$2b$12$..."  # bcrypt hashed password
  jwt_secret: "your-secure-random-jwt-secret-min-32-chars"
```

### Access Admin Interface

1. Start the Toolify service
2. Open `http://localhost:8000/admin` in your browser
3. Login with your admin credentials

### Features

- 📊 **Server Configuration**: Manage host, port, and timeout settings
- 🔄 **Upstream Services**: Add, edit, and remove upstream LLM service configurations
- 🔑 **Client Authentication**: Manage client API keys
- ⚙️ **Feature Configuration**: Toggle feature flags and behavior parameters
- 💾 **Real-time Saving**: Changes are saved directly to `config.yaml`
- 🔐 **Secure Authentication**: JWT-based secure login system

### Frontend Development

If you need to modify the admin interface frontend:

```bash
# Install dependencies
cd frontend
npm install

# Development mode (with hot reload)
npm run dev

# Build for production
npm run build

# Or use the build script
cd ..
./build_frontend.sh
```

Frontend Tech Stack:
- React 19 + TypeScript
- Vite build tool
- Tailwind CSS + shadcn/ui component library

## License

This project is licensed under the GPL-3.0-or-later license.
